---
layout: post
title: "As you gaze into the causality, the causality gazes at you"
date: 2019-03-17
---

The definition of Causality must satisfy three conditions: First, variables must have correlations; Second, two variables must have a time order; Third, variabels' relation cannot be explained by another variables. Let's talk about the Second Conditions.  
The second condition may be the causality's core. Because we believe that there must be future's effect from the past's cause. However, we cannot find an accurate definition of Time. The epistemological problem of time can be date back to David Hume. From now on, physically speaking, the arrow of time we usually used is based on the thermodynamic arrow of time. By **the second law of thermodynamics**, the total entropy of an isolated system can never decrease over time, we realize that the past and the future never be symmetric. But the definition has a paradox: We must realize the Total Entropy's increase by time, and we regard the Total Entropy's increas as time! "Increase" is a change that is defined in time. Actually, we can only find a relative time in Physics.  
**If we know nothing about time, how can we know anything about causality?**  
Maybe somebody doubt the importance for social science about the arrow of time. Yes, we can make a good causality research regardless of time's arrow. But for most social science -- perhaps not contain applied econometrics -- the causality is of mutual, i.e., circulative accumulation. For exaple, insitution and economy are mutually cause and effect. Just like Acemouglu's paper, many resechers make their largest effort to find a pure economy effect from a pure institution cause, or a pure insitution effect from a pure economy cause. But when we see them as a **Time Crystal** because of a cycle between them, it sounds like more interesting. There may be a more economics terms of Time Crystal, such as steady state or dynamic equilibrium.  
And for some resercher who gaze at the causality, time and causality look like intuitive. But time and causality look like more important to them too. Of couse, we cannot use a self-contained language about the world without the intuitive of causality and time. Because the logic's basis is time and causality. We can only get the experiencse from the past, and guess the possibility to the future, which means inductive and deductive.  
Maybe causality is bayesian.
